# Design4Green
Develop a search engine within a web application to find dentists in a directory

Design4Green Design4Green is an international eco-design challenge that proved, computer science and ecology are indeed compatible. It aims to become a true odyssey towards a more sustainable digital world by bringing students and professionals together from around the globe. The main objective of this contest is to encourage students and professionals for sustainable IT by implementing an application project adopting the best practices of eco-design and mastering its impact on the environment. AGIT (Alliance Green IT) and ESAIP (school of engineers) jointly organize the world biggest green IT challenge. Previously it was known as Green Code lab challenge and used to take place in every year, however, following the postponement of 2016 edition, it has become Design4Green which is meant to be bigger and better. The challenge is worldwide and open to student and professionals with the opportunity to host a camp base. The first team will get the opportunity to enjoy a trip to European capital of green IT whereas the 2nd and 3rd team will get 1000 euro each. For this year, it took place on November 22nd to 24th and fifty-seven teams have participated in it. Among them, seven teams were there from PERCCOM comprising 2/3 members from cohort 4 and cohort 5 but no team was allowed to have more than 5 members. The name of my team was Swamp thing and my team members were Daniyal (Cohort 4), Daniel, Orsola and Meru (Cohort 5). As we formed our team before the contest, we arranged a meeting to know each other as well as our capabilities. The official contest started at 6 PM on 22nd and all the team leaders got the code in an envelope and were provided the necessary information through their email id. This year the task was to develop a search engine within a web application to find dentists in a directory. The organizers gave us the relevant dataset in a CSV format including the name, address, specialty, opening hours and photos of the doctors and a VPS to set up our own web server through remote IP address and SSH access. However, the main objective of the challenge was to develop a system which is sustainable and green in terms of coding, CPU and memory utilization, RAM and bandwidth consumption etc. To measure these factors and determine the rankings, we were provided with an Ecoindex community tool which can measure the application footprint (number of DOM elements, number of requests, etc.) as well as the resulting physical footprint (CPU / CPU consumption and RAM / RAM, bandwidth, etc.) and environmental footprint (greenhouse gas, water). Besides, we had to implement a user-friendly interface where the system will allow users to search for doctors based on different categories and also identify the dentists they have already contacted. After getting the instructions, we had a team meeting where we discussed how to approach to find a suitable solution for this problem and how to distribute the tasks among ourselves. It was an amazing experience for us because we had to follow a certain eco-design pattern that we have never worked before. We got to know new things and environment-friendly programming patterns which is beneficial for the environment by reducing the carbon footprint. We were working from LTU base camp where Professor Karl, Ph.D. candidate Raihan and Dimitar were helping us to set up our devices and providing us a light meal as it was a 48-hour nonstop contest. We really enjoyed working together with our fellow colleagues from LTU as well as from University of Lorraine. The only confusing part was the ranking positions from the ecoindex tool as whenever someone was uploading their files to the server, their ranking was going down immediately. Therefore, we were unable to determine whether we need to fulfill all the requirements provided by the organizers or it will be only based on the ecoindex tool as those who weren’t putting anything on the server was in good position. I sent a mail to the authority on behalf of my team but he was not able to provide me concrete information which is why, even after implementing a good system fulfilling all the requirements as well as having good rating in ecoindex tool, we couldn’t make significant progress to get a better position in the ranking. Although it was a bit upsetting as we had high hopes, we have enjoyed the proceedings. We learned a lot from this challenge and now we can call ourselves the flag bearer of sustainable green IT. On behalf of my team, I would like to show my gratitude towards the organizers, professors and all the staff who were involved with this event for providing us this amazing opportunity. Ahmed Afif Monrat
